README.md, before:


# Bowling Game API

This API provides endpoints for managing a bowling game, including starting a new game, inputting the number of pins knocked down by each ball, and outputting the current game score.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Running the Server](#running-the-server)
- [API Endpoints](#api-endpoints)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [How to run the test suite](#Rspec)
- [Future Enhancements](#future-enhancements)
  

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed on your machine:

- Ruby version (`ruby -v`) = 3.0.0 [Installation guide](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/)
- Rails version (`rails -v`) = 6.0.6.1 [Installation guide](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html#installing-rails)
- PostgreSQL version (`psql --version`) = 12.18 [Installation guide](https://www.postgresql.org/download/)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/bowling_game_api.git
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   bundle install
   ```

3. Set up the database:

   ```bash
   rails db:create
   rails db:migrate
   ```

### Running the Server

Start the Rails server:

```bash
rails server
```

The API will be accessible at `http://localhost:3000`.

## API Endpoints

- `POST /games`: Start a new game
- `GET /games`: Get all games index
- `GET /games/highest_score`: Get all games with highest score
- `GET /games/:id`: Output the current game.
- `GET /games/:id/status`: Output the current game status.
- `GET /games/:id/close`: close the current game.
- `POST /games/:id/rolls`: Input the number of pins knocked down by each ball.
- `GET /games/:id/score`: Output the current game total score & each frame score.

## Examples

### Starting a New Game

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/games
```

### Inputting Rolls

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/games/1/rolls -d "pins_knocked_down=7"
```

### Getting Game Score

```bash
curl http://localhost:3000/games/1/score
```

### Rspec 
### (Unit Tests 🧪👓🔎 )
```bash
bundle exec rspec
```



## Future Enhancements

**New Requirements:** Keep tracking of the frame details & API endpoints for it. If in the future we need to keep track of each frame with its type (normal, strike, spare) & order (1..10).

### To Do Steps
1. Create Frame model & controller
2. Frame model

   ```ruby
   has_many :rolls, -> { order(id: :asc, created_at: :asc) }
   belongs_to :game
   ```

3. Frame model schema

   ```ruby
   # == Schema Information
   #
   # Table name: frames
   #
   #  id                      :integer          not null, primary key
   #  created_at              :datetime         not null
   #  updated_at              :datetime         not null
   #  type                    :string           default("normal"), not null
   #  score                   :integer          default(0)
   #  remaining_pins          :integer          default(10)
   #  number                  :integer
   #  status                  :string           default("started"), not null
   ```

4. Calculate frame score
5. Add new API endpoints
   - GET /games/:id/frames
   - GET /games/:id/strike_frames
   - GET /games/:id/spare_frames
   - GET /frames/:frame_id
   - GET /frames/:frame_id/status
   - GET /frames/:frame_id/remaining_pins

These enhancements will allow for better tracking and management of frame details in the bowling game application.

Commit message:

BowlingGame: Added Live Demo Video in README

README.md, after:


# Bowling Game API

This API provides endpoints for managing a bowling game, including starting a new game, inputting the number of pins knocked down by each ball, and outputting the current game score.

## Table of Contents

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Running the Server](#running-the-server)
- [API Endpoints](#api-endpoints)
- [Examples](#examples)
- [How to run the test suite](#Rspec)
- [Project Demo Video](#project-demo-video)
- [Future Enhancements](#future-enhancements)
  

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed on your machine:

- Ruby version (`ruby -v`) = 3.0.0 [Installation guide](https://www.ruby-lang.org/en/documentation/installation/)
- Rails version (`rails -v`) = 6.0.6.1 [Installation guide](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/getting_started.html#installing-rails)
- PostgreSQL version (`psql --version`) = 12.18 [Installation guide](https://www.postgresql.org/download/)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/your-username/bowling_game_api.git
   ```

2. Install dependencies:

   ```bash
   bundle install
   ```

3. Set up the database:

   ```bash
   rails db:create
   rails db:migrate
   ```

### Running the Server

Start the Rails server:

```bash
rails server
```

The API will be accessible at `http://localhost:3000`.

## API Endpoints

- `POST /games`: Start a new game
- `GET /games`: Get all games index
- `GET /games/highest_score`: Get all games with highest score
- `GET /games/:id`: Output the current game.
- `GET /games/:id/status`: Output the current game status.
- `GET /games/:id/close`: close the current game.
- `POST /games/:id/rolls`: Input the number of pins knocked down by each ball.
- `GET /games/:id/score`: Output the current game total score & each frame score.

## Examples

### Starting a New Game

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/games
```

### Inputting Rolls

```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/games/1/rolls -d "pins_knocked_down=7"
```

### Getting Game Score

```bash
curl http://localhost:3000/games/1/score
```

### Rspec 
### (Unit Tests 🧪👓🔎 )
```bash
bundle exec rspec
```

## Project Demo Video

### Demo Video

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xQjyms3xnq2p0U9RutvibEMJYXSKYw-v/view?usp=sharing" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Broadcasting and Rspec Demo Video

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xQjyms3xnq2p0U9RutvibEMJYXSKYw-v/view?usp=sharing" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>



## Future Enhancements

**New Requirements:** Keep tracking of the frame details & API endpoints for it. If in the future we need to keep track of each frame with its type (normal, strike, spare) & frame number (1..10). Add another language to the API (Spanish, French, German, etc.)

### To Do Steps
1. Create Frame model & controller
2. Frame model

   ```ruby
   has_many :rolls, -> { order(id: :asc, created_at: :asc) }
   belongs_to :game
   ```

3. Frame model schema

   ```ruby
   # == Schema Information
   #
   # Table name: frames
   #
   #  id                      :integer          not null, primary key
   #  created_at              :datetime         not null
   #  updated_at              :datetime         not null
   #  type                    :string           default("normal"), not null
   #  score                   :integer          default(0)
   #  remaining_pins          :integer          default(10)
   #  number                  :integer
   #  status                  :string           default("started"), not null
   ```

4. Calculate frame score
5. Add new API endpoints
   - GET /games/:id/frames
   - GET /games/:id/strike_frames
   - GET /games/:id/spare_frames
   - GET /frames/:frame_id
   - GET /frames/:frame_id/status
   - GET /frames/:frame_id/remaining_pins
6. Add new locales (Spanish, French, German, etc.)

These enhancements will allow for better tracking and management of frame details in the bowling game application.
